

First thing is serializing objects to the binary format. Each primitive type object will have a tag which is a byte codifying 
each resource type and size which number of bytes it occupies after the tag. Each Structure object  will have a tag, name and size.




--Binary format

We need define binary format to which messages are serialized on send and recovered on reception. 
We started using an array of bytes with each resource serialized in a tag which is a byte codifying each resource type, size, 
name that only on structure and resource components and value which is the actual sequence of bytes resulting from serializing the 
resource.

- An integer is always 64 bits (longs), with each byte serialized in sequence (with masks and shifts). You should decide which byte goes first (lowest or highest). The receiver will recover the integer in the same way.

- Booleans can use just two different tags (no size or content, since the tag says it all)

- Strings. Better use a UTF-8 encoding, since it is already byte oriented. Again, decide which byte of each character goes first, if it has more than one byte. Check in both C# and Java which is the best way to deal with strings, in terms of serialization. You cannot use predefined serialization, unless you know exactly how it is done. It cannot be language dependent.

- Structures. Sequence of fields, in which, for each field, you should include: name (a string) and the component proper (serialized according to its type of resource)

The binary format is always the result of serializing data in each language, with a tag, the number of bytes that follow and the serialized content. Recovering the serialized data is simply testing the tag to find the data type and then using the number of bytes and the serialized content, as you already did.

  
-- Receiver 
 In receiver we define a set of predefined resource types.They are primitive types such as 
 integer, boolean, string, etc and compound resource and operation 
 (this is basically only the interface. The actual code is a method invoked by reflexion, given its name)




-- Serializer

We define a set of classes implementing each type of resource, including serialization to the binary format and
recovery from that format (each resource knows how to produce its bytes and to recover from bytes with its tag). 
The tag permits to reconstruct completely a given resource that has been serialized


-- DOM - Document Object Model 

 Given a message received, you can reconstruct the corresponding resource (in effect, this corresponds to a DOM, 
 with parsing based on tags simplifying the reconstruction)
 
 Compliance checking (matching the message received and the argument) is done at the level of the programming language, by reflection (or you can define a method in a subclass of the operation class to do this) 

 Compound resources support traversal (return a link to one of its components, given its name)
 
 --Communicatiuon
 
 BASE64 is just to overcome the limitation of HTTP of not supporting binary data. So, you serialize everything to the binary, 
 then encode in BASE64 and decode at the receiver to recover the binary data. This will not have to be done in HTTP 2 or any other protocol that supports binary.
 
 This means that, with classical HTTP, you always use BASE64 blindly, to encode a sequence of bytes, independently of what it is, and only upon recovering those bytes at the receiver you check the tag to find out which data type it is. 
 
 
 
 The idea would be to implement this in Java, then adapt it to C# (or vice-versa), so that two different languages can 
 use the SIL binary format and compliance philosophy. You can start by only basic stuff (just one or two primitive resources) and 
 then go up to where you can (there is no need to implement all this simplified SIL). The goal is basically to demonstrate the concept, not build a full system.
