SOA Web Services

DEFINITON

xXXX
https://books.google.fr/books/about/Understanding_Web_Services.html?id=SHSBri-rMyQC&redir_esc=y 

EXAMPLE

Let’s start an example with java application. Let’s say we have implementation class and I want to share this implementation class with other developer projects. How I would share this with a consumer class. The best way to share this implementation class would be to contract it with an interface and other consumers would consume this class through this interface. They would call implementation through interface so they get contract and they get the methods, arguments, written types through interface. They actually call the methods of implementation class, so how this works in case of web service, let’s say I have web service implementation and I want to share details of this web service to consumers. Is it works with an interface? Probably it will not work because as we discussed before you don’t know what technology is consuming it. It might be C# application or C++ application, so if you have a java web service you might want to give some kind of information that its consumer respects to that technology and that can actually consume. Let’s say consumer is .Net and if I give this .Net application a java interface then most probably it will not work because they are different technologies, so the technology that I am going to share with web service consumer has to be technology independent. It should be something that any application or any technology can understand so creators of SOA web service talked about that problem and what to give format understandable by all technology with all consumers and decided with XML. So what you do is in case of web service, you actually share that contract as an XML document. This XML document is actually called as WSDL.

[GRAPH]  -> interface similar to video

WSDL document contains the contract to web service and so that’s are the things you have to do when you create the web service and you share WSDL document of that web service to the consumers, so this is not something you would have to do it manually. You would do it manually but there are tools which generate WSDL for the web service but it is something that you need to share this WSDL to consumers and it is a XML document, so it respective whatever application because applications such as .Net, C++ or Java can all parse this XML and get to know about service information and typically the content of this WSDL is kind of similar to an interface content. It has operations, arguments and types  to return that consumer applications will have idea what to call and how to call.

[GRAPH] WSDL similar to video

The new question is that how this exchange happens, how you actually send this information, let’s say you have a method in your java application and input argument is a string so you have a java string with you and you need to send to web service and let’s say output return type is a list, so how you get this information because that could be .Net application and string in java obviously different from string in C#. How do you exchange this between client app and web service?  When you exchange information input argument or return type you need to exchange it in the format that all different technologies can understand what you are passing and it should be able to send return type back in language that all these technologies can understand. Again this format is XML. When you are sending any information across the network from a client to the web services and return type back to the client, the data has to be in XML format. You are not really sending java string or a list. So it has to be language natural format which is XML. There is specification about how you need to send all these different input type and output argument basically any type needs to be send specific XML format.

It is a protocol that is a way in which both sender and receiver and this XML is called SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol). It is a way in which these different technologies can access objects can access data it supposedly simple so that a part of the name is called simple object access protocol. So with this protocol all different technologies written in different languages can kind of understand what they all taking about.

[GRAPH] SOAP

Now you know what is the mechanism you know what need to be send and you know how to send which is using SOAP protocol but who does conversion? So for example you have your string object or complex object, so how do you convert it from java object to a soap message? The conversion is actually done with intermedia class so this class takes care of converting all your objects into a SOAP message. The whole method calls itself is actually done by SEI. The SEI access interface to your web service endpoint so you have an interface at your client app to the service endpoint which translate all web service call to a SOAP message and then it makes sure that the other things is able to understand this message. So we don’t have to write this class and all the conversion ourselves. We can have it automatically generated for us. When you are making a web service call you don’t worry about where the web service is. When you need to call, all you need to do is have this endpoint interface and good thing about this service endpoint that you can actually have an interface that specific to what you are developing. When you have a java application you will have a specific SEI for java application and it knows to convert java objects to SOAP message. Let’s say your .Net application calling the same web service so you will have SEI for .NET that know to convert .Net objects to SOAP message.

GRAPH SEI




